feat(components): document adding lint rules to desktop modeler (#1500)
camunda/camunda-platform-docs: docs/components/modeler/desktop-modeler/lint-rules/lint-rules.md

---
id: lint-rules

> title: Lint rules

Reviewer: What about "Custom lint rules"?

> description: "Lint rule plugins allow you to add your own lint rules to the Desktop Modeler."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to contribute additional validation (lint) rules to the Desktop Modeler through lint rule plug-ins."
```

---

> [bpmnlint](https://github.com/bpmn-io/bpmnlint) plugins allow you to add custom lint rules for BPMN diagrams or disable existing rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Desktop Modeler uses [bpmnlint](https://github.com/bpmn-io/bpmnlint) to validate BPMN diagrams. Through defined modeler extension points you add plug-in additional lint rules or configure/disable existing rules.
```

> The Desktop Modeler uses [bpmnlint](https://github.com/bpmn-io/bpmnlint) to validate BPMN diagrams. Through defined modeler extension points you add plug-in additional lint rules or configure/disable existing rules.

Reviewer: Typo "you add plug-in additional..."

Reviewer: Also, better to highlight the value of this feature first (allows to add your own validation rules to ensure processes follow blabla...) before diving into the technical details

Reviewer 3: Reworded this in my latest commit -- is this what you mean?

Reviewer: @philippfromme @christinaausley more like explaining what those rules are for—why should a user care about it? Maybe also adding a screenshot of how a custom rule will appear in the problems panel, making it easier to correlate for the reader

Author: I was also thinking about adding a screenshot to sell it better. Will make adjustments. I'll also try and discuss this again with @nikku.

## Getting started

> To get started, you can use [this example project](https://github.com/camunda/camunda-modeler-custom-linter-rules-plugin).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started, you can start from the [custom-linter-rules-plugin template)[https://github.com/camunda/camunda-modeler-custom-linter-rules-plugin).
```

Take the following steps:

> 1. Clone the repository:

Reviewer 4: If we want to encourage people to share their work, I'd rather suggest to fork the repo instead.

```
git clone https://github.com/camunda/camunda-modeler-custom-linter-rules-plugin.git
```

The plugin starter project comes with a client folder which is referenced in the [plugin entry point](../plugins#plugin-entry-point). It contains the script that adds a bpmnlint plugin to the modeler. Since this is a [client plugin](../plugins#extend-the-modeler-and-its-bpmn-and-dmn-components) you need to bundle it.

2. Install the dependencies:

```
npm install
```

3. Add a custom rule

> To add a custom rule, add it to the [`bpmnlint-plugin-custom/rules`](https://github.com/camunda/camunda-modeler-custom-linter-rules-plugin/tree/master/bpmnlint-plugin-custom/rules) folder. The example project contains a [`no-manual-task.js`](https://github.com/camunda/camunda-modeler-custom-linter-rules-plugin/blob/master/bpmnlint-plugin-custom/rules/no-manual-task.js) file implements a custom rule.

Reviewer: Typo: "... file THAT implements a custom rule"

Reviewer 3: Noticed this as well -- adjusted in my latest commit.
